Thank you all for taking some time out of your day.
We're going to start by looking at an R Markdown document and how we can use R and Python together
inside of that document with some special new magic that's available in the latest versions
of RStudio.
We'll also talk about how once we've finished that document, it can be published and shared
in a reproducible way so that others can view it.
And perhaps you might introduce some lightweight automation.
We'll look briefly at how a similar outcome can be achieved with Jupyter notebooks using
shared infrastructure.
And then we'll talk about how the model we're creating in this document can actually be
put into place so that decisions can be made based on that model.
And we'll look at how you can maybe do that with an interactive app or through something
like a RESTful API.
And then finally, we'll talk about how those APIs and applications can also be developed
using some of the new options inside of the RStudio tool set.
So we'll go ahead and jump in.
And to set a little bit of context, I am using RStudio on a server.
And so that means I'm going to access RStudio through a web browser.
And there's a couple of really nice benefits to doing this.
The first is that I have more resources available to me than I would on my laptop.
And specifically, if I go in to start a new session, you'll see we're taking advantage
of a tool called Kubernetes that allows me to kind of on-demand specify what resources
I want for this work.
Another benefit of using a server is that it means everyone on my team, Lou and myself,
are speaking from a common playbook.
And in this case, we're explicitly defining our environment through a Docker image where
our session is going to run.
But even if you're not using Kubernetes or Docker, by having your work on a server, everyone
has a common home, which helps make collaboration a lot easier.
And then finally, because we're on a server, we're a lot closer to our data, which means
our work can scale in an easier fashion.
Now, in a moment, I'll be jumping into the RStudio IDE.
But while I'm here, I just want to point out that one of the things we've done in the last
year for multilingual teams is added the ability for other editing tools to be accessed
from this same interface.
So it's almost like a workbench, where you can pick up the right tool from that workbench
regardless of what language your current project demands.
And that means for multilingual data science teams, everyone has all those benefits I just
described of a common playbook, regardless of what editor they're using.
And for IT, it's really nice to have this common front door where these different environments
are going to be accessed.
So we'll go ahead and jump into RStudio.
And at this point, I want to point out that everything you're going to see inside of the
RStudio IDE, even though I'm using RStudio Server, is going to be available in any flavor
of the RStudio IDE.
So whether you're using the open source desktop, or RStudio Server open source, or the professional
product like I am, you'll have access to the interoperability that we're about to go through.
So to set the stage just a little bit more, I'm doing my work here inside of an R Markdown
document.
If you haven't seen R Markdown before, it's basically a format where I can combine prose,
so what I'm thinking, along with my code, and then the output of my code.
But what's new in the latest version of RStudio is something that we're calling the visual
editor.
And what that means is that even though I'm editing in R Markdown document, on the fly,
I'm getting a live rendering of what this document looks like.
So that means I can do things a little bit easier than I used to.
So for example, if I needed to put in a table, I could insert a table really quickly.
I can add Markdown to that table, and it will be rendered on demand.
I can even do things like insert citations or emojis.
And so I can use all these different tools inside of the visual editor, and whatever
I'm doing is going to show up as kind of a real-time preview.
And the reason why I think this is so important is that regardless of what language you're
working from, ultimately, a data scientist's key job is to communicate.
And so being able to write effectively in a tool that supports really rich technical
communication is vital for any type of data scientist.
And I've found that this visual editor makes things that used to be challenging for that
type of technical communication really easy.
One of my favorites is I can go in here and actually insert an image.
I don't have to worry about figuring out where that image lives on disk, and I can even resize
it interactively.
So we hope that regardless of what language, this visual editor is going to give you a
head start as you're writing down what you're thinking and documenting your process.
And it really combines kind of the best worlds of a Jupyter notebook and the RStudio IDE
and R Markdown.
And if you haven't seen this before, inside the latest version of RStudio, all you need
to do is click this button in the upper right-hand corner.
And what that button does is flip us back and forth between the plain text source code
that's still available here, perfect for version control, and that pre-rendered view of the
document.
All right, so that's where we're doing our work, is inside of this visual editor.
What are we going to do?
Well, we have kind of a made-up data science exercise.
And so like most data science exercises, we're going to start by pulling in some data.
And this data is coming from a database.
And again, something that we're excited about, regardless of what language you use, is the
ability within RStudio to seamlessly manage connections to databases.
And so here I have a connection to a database called content.
There's a number of different tables inside of it.
And without switching to a different SQL editor, I can really easily preview the schema of
this database table and even preview some of the records if I want.
So I have this database.
And I'm starting out by writing some R code that's going to operate within the database
to do some basic transforms.
And so if you haven't seen this before, using dplyr, you can write R code, then that R code
actually gets executed as SQL.
And so that's what's going on here.
So we're creating some data that we're then going to do an analysis on.
So let's take a quick look at that data.
Essentially, we have spatial temporal data.
And so we're looking at bike share data from the DC area.
So those bike shares, if you've ever been walking around the city and you want to rent
a bike, you can usually find a station with bikes lined up, and then you pay some money
to be able to ride the bike around.
And so the data that we have is how many bikes were available at any given station at any
point in time.
So we have kind of this time series of bikes that are available.
Then we also have kind of spatial component of where those bikes were located.
So it's a pretty cool data set.
And what we want to try to do is forecast into the future for a given station, how many
bikes might be available.
Say I have to commute home at 5 p.m., is there going to be a bike there that I can take?
So we'll get started by doing that in R. And the first thing that we're going to do is
create a test and training data set.
And because we're working with time series data, it's really important that we don't
accidentally use the future to predict the past.
And so in R, we've created a test and training data set where the training data set sequentially
occurs before the test data set.
And now that we have these two things, we can go ahead and build our model.
And I'm using a new R package or an ecosystem of R packages called tidy models.
There's a lot of great resources online if you want to dive into modeling in R. But essentially
what this set of packages is allowing us to do is pre-process our data.
And so we have here kind of latitude and longitude.
That's the spatial element.
We have the date and time.
That's the temporal element.
But we've used some pre-processing tricks to create a factor for the day of week and
also add some information about whether a given day was a holiday.
So you have a nice, rich data set to do modeling on.
And then the first thing that we might do is create a model in R. And so to do that,
again, within this tidy models ecosystem, I'm essentially creating a workflow that's
going to take our model pre-processing along with this gradient-boosted engine and fit
a simple regression model.
So we can go ahead and do that.
And if we look at the results here, we have a predicted number of bikes along with the
actual number of bikes, kind of what we'd expect.
And we can evaluate how our prediction did.
So one thing that we can do for that quick evaluation is plot the prediction versus the
reality.
And if our model was really good, all of our data points would fall along this y equals
x line where predictions match reality.
You can see we have quite a bit of variance from that line.
We could look at the R-squared value of our model and see that it's not very good.
That's why I'm paid to give webinars and not models.
But this hopefully gives you a sense of kind of what your workflow might start to look
like on R. We can even, because this is a tree-based model, look at feature importance.
And so you can see that our model is emphasizing the location of our bike share station and
not putting as much weight on some of those factors that we created.
So we have this iffy model in R. What do we want to do next?
Well, we could try a lot of different things to improve our model.
One thing we might want to do is try something from the Python ecosystem.
And so that's where kind of the heart of this webinar begins, which is how are we going
to interoperate Python and R inside of this same context?
Well, the first thing that we'll do is create a Python code chunk.
And inside of that Python code chunk, one of the things that we're going to want to
do right off the bat is import some packages.
So I'll go ahead and add the code to bring in these packages.
And we can do a quick sanity check here to run the code chunk.
And it appears that we have these packages loaded inside of Python.
Now, I can already see in the chat that many of you are asking, how is Python managed?
Where are these packages coming from?
Those are really great questions.
So in the latest version of RStudio, you can use a project or global option to specify
what Python interpreters should be used in the context where you're mixing R and Python
together.
And so for this project, I've created a virtual environment.
And I've selected and told RStudio to use that virtual environment.
You can see that RStudio is actually aware of kind of the multitude of Python installs
that are available on this server.
That's one of those benefits, again, of working on a server is that if Lou and I were collaborating
together, we'd have this common understanding of what Python installations are available.
So that's where the Python engine is coming from.
The Python packages themselves are coming from a tool called RStudio Package Manager.
So in our case, our server is not online.
We have some sensitive data that lives in our environment.
So we're not able to go reach out to the internet.
So instead, Package Manager acts as this intermediary where we can install Python packages from
a specifically governed mirror of PyPI.
And so that's what you're looking at here.
I can search for packages.
I can see information about those packages, how to install them, what they depend on.
But something that's really special about this mirror is that it has a safety net that
allows me to time travel as well.
And so if I ever got into a situation where my Python environment wasn't working, I could
go backwards or forwards in time to reinstall packages from a specific point in the past.
So that's where these packages are coming from.
Let's go ahead and start writing some code.
And this is where I think things get really magical.
Because within this Python code chunk inside of my R Markdown document, I actually have
access to everything that I've done up until this point in R. And you can actually see
the IDE here is helping me autocomplete some of the objects that are attributes of this
special R object that are available.
And so what does that mean?
Well, I'm going to cheat a little bit and grab some code that I've written ahead of time.
We'll just put this inside of our code chunk, and then I can walk you through it.
So the first thing I'm doing, because we're going to fit this model in Python, is load
some training and test data.
But you can see that I'm not starting from scratch.
I'm using this magic R object to actually pull in the training and test data that I
already created.
And then I can use that as a jumping off point for fitting my model.
And so we're going to do a little bit of preprocessing with pandas, and then we're going to use some
functions from scikit-learn to fit another type of model.
And one of the things that's really interesting, and why we might jump into Python here, is
that scikit-learn has native support for time series cross-validation.
So remember I said we can't use the future to predict the past?
Well, scikit-learn knows how to handle that, even in the case where you're doing a whole
bunch of cross-validation fitting.
And so that's what we're doing here to fit an SVR model.
I can go ahead and run this Python code chunk, and we can take a look at our results.
All right, so trainResults.mean, that's the mean of our cross-validation R-squared value.
And you can see, it's really bad.
Okay, so I'm not a great Python model fitter.
But hopefully you get the idea that we can really seamlessly reuse things back and forth.
And you might have noticed a couple of other things that the IDE is doing to help me with this
Python development.
So one of the things that I briefly mentioned is that autocomplete.
And so say we wanted to use a different model from scikit-learn.
You can see the IDE is providing me with all the different options that are available,
all the attributes and methods of these objects.
And the help for those methods, the arguments that they take, are also all going to be available
in the IDE with the rich autocompletion that you'd expect.
The other thing that I'll point out is if we look at our environment pane, when we switch
to the Python context, we actually got a Python environment explorer as well.
And so these objects that I'm creating inside of Python, I can actually see them and explore
them inside of the IDE.
And I could even preview them as well.
So this becomes a really rich way to interactively do your work and debug problems.
And you can see that even things like the filter capability inside of the IDE, as well
as sort, work for these Python objects.
I can also switch at any time back and forth between R and Python because the two ecosystems
are coexisting together inside of this notebook.
Speaking of which, there's one last trick that I want to show you.
So I've fit this Python model, and I have some Python predictions.
What if I then wanted to go and do some further analysis?
Well, you saw how I can reuse R objects in the Python context.
But I can do the same thing inside of R. So inside of R, there's this magic object called
py that gives me access to everything that I've created so far in the Python space.
And so I can go ahead and use that object to do something like this.
If I grab some code from my cheat sheet, place it in this chunk, I'm essentially taking
the Python model predictions and plotting them with ggplot2.
And you can see a little bit here why our model fit is so bad.
It's because we're not capturing nearly any of the variance that is going on inside of
our data.
All right.
So we've fit this model that combines R and Python together inside of a notebook.
What do we do now?
Well, at RStudio, we're big believers that you should share your data science work early
and often.
This is the best way for people with domain knowledge or stakeholders to validate that
you're on the right path.
And so one way to do that that's really powerful is through publishing.
And within RStudio, we can publish.
You see this blue icon here.
And we can publish to a number of places.
But within a team enterprise setting, our recommendation is to publish to RStudio Connect.
And so I'll go ahead and do that.
You can see the ID identifies my dependencies.
And what happens when I click publish is that a reproducible unit is created here that contains
not only my code, but also things like the version of R, the version of Python, the different
packages that I need to reliably reproduce this document.
And so I'll go and show you the end result here on RStudio Connect, which is that same
rendered notebook.
So we have kind of all the information that I have been working up to this point, but
in the context where I can easily share it with others.
So I can specify who should be able to see this.
And because it's that reproducible unit, at any point, I can reliably refresh this document
to regenerate the results.
Or I could do something like set up a schedule.
So my data might change over time, and I might want this notebook to re-render on a regular
basis.
And I can set all that up because the dependencies are intertwined in a reproducible unit with
this document.
Now, you might be thinking, that's great if you're a RStudio user, which probably most
of you are.
But what about my colleagues on the Python side?
Well, the same option is available for sharing your work early and often if you're coming
from Python.
And so I want to quickly show you what that looks like.
In the RStudio IDE, we clicked that blue Publish button.
And inside of Jupyter Notebooks, you can click that blue Publish button as well.
But I want to show you a slightly different way that you can quickly and easily share
your content.
And that's to import content from a system like Git.
So what I have here is a Git repository.
That Git repository contains all of the example code we've been talking about today.
And it's a public repository.
So you can go ahead and play around with this as well if you'd like.
What I'm going to do is take this Git repository and tell RStudio Connect to import that content.
And so I have different branches that I can choose between.
And then this repository has a number of different directories.
I'll go ahead and import the Jupyter Notebook.
I'll give it a title here.
And what happens when we import this content is the same thing that we saw in interactive
publishing.
The environment this content depends upon is recreated.
So I have a reproducible unit of work around my notebook.
And if I go and open up that notebook, I can see the results.
So I can share this even with a non-technical user who might be intimidated by the standard
Jupyter Notebook interface.
Here they just have a really clean HTML document that they can read.
And a data scientist can specify who should be able to see this content, but also do those
same things I was talking about for scheduling or re-rendering the content on demand.
So we have our notebooks.
We've shared them early and often.
That's great.
We've gotten this domain feedback.
Maybe we iterate a couple of times and really improve that model.
What do we do then?
How do we ensure that the model is actually being used to generate decisions?
That's kind of the key task of a data science team.
Well, there's two ways that we think about this at RStudio.
One is to influence how decision makers are making decisions through your model.
And a great way to do that is through interactive applications.
So many of you might be familiar with tools like Shiny, which allow you to do that in R.
But we've worked hard in the last year to ensure that multilingual teams have that same capability.
So what you're looking at here is a Dash application,
which is an interactive application written in Python.
And what this application is going to allow us to do is help stakeholders understand our model.
So they can come in here and click through different stations
and see the forecast and the location of the station.
So it's a pretty simple app, but hopefully it kind of gets your wheels turning
that even if you're a Python data scientist or you work with Python data scientists,
they have the same ability to impact decisions by creating interactive content.
And we see examples of that with Dash, with Streamlet, with Bokeh,
with a wide variety of interactive Python frameworks that are supported through the RStudio stack.
So that's how you might go about influencing a person with your model.
But what if you need to use your model to make a whole bunch of automated decisions?
Or if you need to influence not a person, but a service?
One way that's common to solve that problem is by creating an API.
And again, there's options for doing this in R and Python.
So on the R side, we have tools like Plumber.
On the Python side, we have tools like Flask.
And both of these can be shared just as easily through RStudio Connect.
And so I'll just quickly show you what that API might entail.
Again, we have all of the same controls.
And so we can look at the logs of this Plumber API.
We could do things like scale.
If we know we're going to have thousands of requests to this API at the same time,
we can specify how we want the system to handle those requests.
But at the end of the day, the idea is pretty simple.
It's that anyone can come in and place a parameter of your model.
In this case, we're specifying the station that we want to make a prediction for
and the time horizon that we want to make a prediction for.
And then those inputs are passed to our model, and the results are returned.
So here we have the results of our forecast.
But as you can see, that passing of inputs and outputs
is done in a way that machines can understand.
So here we have the output in JSON.
And just above that, we have the request
that our kind of interactive exploration of this API would generate.
So other systems or services or software engineers
can take advantage of your model at scale.
All right.
So we've covered quite a bit of ground.
We've talked about how to make these models through notebooks.
We've talked about the different ways that you can
enhance those models and put them into production.
I didn't actually show you the code for either that Dash application or this API.
So that's the last thing that I wanted to do
is talk a little bit about how you can get started writing this type of code.
And so if I go back to the RStudio IDE, if you're an R user,
my recommendation is to just click New File,
and you'll see a bunch of options,
two of which are Shiny web applications and Plumber APIs.
So those are going to get you started with creating either web apps or APIs.
If you're a Python user inside of the RStudio stack,
we looked at Jupyter notebooks.
But if you want to do this type of coding for APIs or applications,
you're probably going to need a little bit more robust editor.
And you can use either JupyterLab or VS Code for that purpose.
If I open up Visual Studio Code,
the kind of last thing I want to show you here
is just how easy that deployment of an API or an application is.
So inside of VS Code,
again, I'm working off of that shared common Python environment.
So it's easy for me to collaborate and automatically
get the right Python environment as all my colleagues.
I have my code here for a dash application.
And then all I need to do to deploy
is use a utility that we've created called rsconnect.
So this is just a Python package that you can install
really wherever you're writing Python code.
And it has commands to help you then take that Python code
and wrap it up in that reproducible context.
So for example, I'll do rsconnect deploy dash to a server called dev.
And it's going to run through and identify
all the dependencies of this application
and then give me the link to the deployed app.
And if we follow that link,
you'll see the exact same bike share application
we were looking at before.
So to recap, we covered quite a bit of ground.
We created that document using R and Python
and some really cool RStudio magic.
That document was shared in a reproducible way.
We talked about how Jupyter notebook users
can do the same type of early and often sharing.
And then how we can use that model to impact decisions
either through apps or APIs.
And finally, how you might go about writing those things
using some of the new features in the RStudio workbench.
With that, I will hand things over to Lou,
who's going to kind of bring us home.
And then we'll have the Q&A.
Thank you, Sean. That was great.
So while Sean was talking,
I was taking a look at a lot of the questions
coming in via Slido.
There are a number of questions there that have been upvoted,
some of which that Sean covered a lot of that material
in his demo after those questions came in.
But we'll get to as many of those as we can.
So Sean showed off a number of different things here.
For the data scientist, he showed how you can use
these two languages closely together
without a lot of overhead.
So that data scientists can use each language
for their own strengths.
Also illustrated some of the different IDEs
that can be used,
allowing data scientists to use their preferred IDE.
Again, making that easy.
And we now support in addition to the RStudio IDE,
of course, Jupyter and VS Code.
Visual editing of R Markdown is a great advance.
Again, making the user experience,
the developer experience for data scientists much easier.
And to answer one of the questions in the Q&A,
that visual markdown is available
in the open source version of the RStudio IDE.
So a number of different ways that data scientists
can use R and Python to deliver these wow results
to the rest of the organization.
For the DevOps and IT teams,
using these centralized environments
makes it easy to support these common tools
for both R and Python.
And to operationalize both languages
without doubling the work.
And by making both of these languages
easy to use together,
it helps data science leaders
really optimize their team for the people,
not for an arbitrary choice for single language.
To better enable collaboration within the team
and within their stakeholders,
and really able to access these wider talent pools
to hire new data scientists into their team.
And finally, for the business stakeholders
in the organization,
ultimately they don't care
about what the underlying language is.
They just want to have reproducible,
accurate, understandable data science insights
that they can use to help make better decisions.
So by sharing this data science work
through platforms like Connect,
they can access this up-to-date interactive analyses
and dashboards,
or get the information directly in their email.
So they can get the answers they need
in order to make better decisions.
All these capabilities are supported
by the RStudio team set of products,
which together combine to provide a single home
for R and Python data science teams.
Again, RStudio Server Pro
is the centralized environment
allowing data scientists to use R or Python
to analyze data and create these data products.
RStudio Connect is a platform to publish the results
to make them available to business users
and other stakeholders
using R or Python based data science products.
And RStudio Package Manager
to manage open source packages
for both R and Python.
One of the questions that I saw in the Q&A
was a question of expressing pain
around how difficult it is
to manage packages in the Python ecosystem.
And we've recently added support
for managing packages from PyPI
to RStudio Package Manager
to help address that exact pain point.
And I'll ask Sean to comment on that
in the Q&A section.
RStudio is of course used by millions of people
every week using our open source software.
Things like the IDE and the Tidyverse
and Shiny critical open source applications
that we create as part of our open source mission.
We're also used by thousands of active
commercial software customers
including over half of the Fortune 100
and many well-known brands
such as the ones we see here.
We also have been really gratified
to hear from our customers
via trustradius.com.
So if you are an RStudio user
we encourage you to go to Trustradius
check out the RStudio profile
read some of the reviews
that people have left there
and add your own review
because we read every single one of these
we try and respond
and certainly these are one of the ways
that we hear from our users.
We've gotten great feedback
from our customers
on combining R and Python
in a single platform
and how it helps them
collaborate among their team
and to essentially allow these teams to
as the second reviewer says
make use of their preferred language
for data analysis
so that they can create
and publish products
via RStudio Connect
using both R and Python
to share with their internal clients
and stakeholders
as third reviewer shows here.
Now we've talked a lot
along the way about our pro products
but I want to emphasize
that our core mission
is to engage and support
the R and Python community
and we do that in a number of different ways.
The most important of course
is creating the open source software
that our users use every week
but there are a number of different ways we do it.
We support the RStudio community site
allowing R users and Python users
to gather and ask each other questions
and get answers to those questions.
That's a great resource.
We do our annual conference.
This year it was a virtual conference
under current circumstances
but that was just a couple weeks ago
and we were very gratified
by the engagement there.
Check out our blog
and there's a link there
to all the globals,
all sorry, all the videos
from RStudio Global.
Many different speakers
from all around the world.
Those are all free to watch.
We had a tremendous amount
of positive feedback
both directly on social media
on that conference
so I encourage you
to check out those videos.
Our education team
is focused to help
support the education of R.
We do a lot of train
the trainer capabilities
providing training materials, etc.
So if you're interested
in being a certified RStudio R trainer
check out our education page.
We're also supporters
of the R Consortium
a multi-vendor group
to support and advance
the infrastructure
around the R language
as well as a platinum sponsor
of NumFocus
which provides a tremendous support
for the Python ecosystem
among other projects.
And then finally Ursa Labs.
We've been a supporter
of Ursa Labs from the beginning
and Ursa Labs is devoted
to developing cross-language capabilities
such as using the Apache Aero project
to provide access
both within R and Python
to those capabilities.
And it's important to emphasize
how our open source
and pro products tie together.
Of course, it's our core mission
as I said to contribute
open source software
to the community.
And we spend over half
of our engineering resources
creating this free
and open source software.
As the data science community
adopts open source software
this drives adoption
within larger enterprises
and commercial customers.
These commercial customers
in turn buy our pro products
that are focused on helping scale out
and operationalize
open source data science.
And by buying our pro products
that provides RStudio
the funds so that we can sustain
our ongoing open source work.
We call this idea
the virtuous cycle.
This idea that we're supporting
our mission to deliver
free and open source software
to the community
by selling the pro software
to the enterprise companies
that need those features.
So if you'd like some more information
we have a number
of different resources.
Again, these slides
and the recording
will be sent out
within a few days
after the webinar.
rstudio.com slash python
is your one central portal
to get to a lot of this information.
We also did a blog post
recently on recapping
all the Python related features
we added in both our open source
and pro products
over the last year.
So I encourage you
to take a look at this.
If you'd like to set up a time
to talk to us one on one
you can use this URL here
rstd.io slash r underscore
and underscore python
to learn more
set up a meeting
get some answers.
The webinar recording
will be available
on our resources site.
If you'd like
some more technical information
and a number of the questions
in the Q&A
we're looking for
more technical details
check out some of these links
the reticulate package website
as well as providing
some examples
and a webinar on that topic.
We also on our
solution.rstudio.com site
we've got a number of articles
providing deeper information
on how to integrate Python
in RStudio Server Pro
and RStudio Connect.
Again those are all accessible
through the top level
rstudio.com slash python portal
and for our community site
is a great place
to ask questions
about R and Python
open source and pro.
Now going through the Q&A
the most popular question
was how to
you know as an R user
how can I learn Python?
What would you recommend
to experienced R users?
I did a quick poll
to our education team
and these couple of books
floated to the top
are you know Python
for data analysis
or Python data science.
Both of these books
were recommended
by our education team
as being more data first
as opposed to programming first.
I will try and get
a few more recommendations
to add to this slide
before we share it
with the participants.
And I would add to that Lou
as part of this webinar
afterwards we'll be sharing
information on the RCU
community page
that rstud.io
slash rpyqa link
the link that is currently
bringing you to Slido
with all the questions
will be redirected
to that community thread.
We'd actually love
for all of you
to give input
to answer that question as well
because there's a lot of diversity
and how people learn.
We know these communities
are coming from very different
people and lots of
diverse backgrounds
and so if you have something
that's worked really well
I would recommend
replying to that community thread.
We'd love to kind of
open source the answer
to that question
beyond us at RStudio.
That's a great point Sean.
Thank you very much.
So with that Sean
is there any particular questions
that you'd like to kick off with?
Yeah absolutely.
I think one of the
most common questions
was what parts of that demo
are available
on the open source side?
What parts are part
of the professional products?
So apologies if I didn't do
quite enough signposting there
to delineate.
Essentially everything that you saw
in sort of the RStudio IDE
so that visual editor
of R Markdown documents
the ability to combine R and Python
inside of an R Markdown document
selecting what Python interpreter to use
the Python objects
in the environment pane
the Python REPL even
those are all going to be
in that open source desktop IDE
regardless of what version you use.
And in fact I would encourage folks
to look at the Reticulate website
that talks a bit more about
some of the options
that I didn't dig into
for combining R and Python
in that open source way.
One of the questions asked
if I just have a Python script
can I use that in RStudio?
And the answer is absolutely
that's something that I didn't show
but it is available
in the open source IDE.
So I'd encourage folks to go there.
The things that were specific
to our professional products
would be the selection
of different editors
from that common workbench
as well as the deployment
of work to RStudio Connect
I would encourage folks
especially there was some
folks who were saying
I work at a research institution
or I'm teaching at a university
and I would benefit from
some of those professional capabilities.
I would encourage you to reach out
a lot of the professional products
we give away for free
if you're teaching
and are pretty discounted
for research as well.
So hopefully that helps answer
that kind of common question about
what can I do on my own today?
Everything inside of RStudio IDE
what would be part of
the professional products
that would be anything
you saw in terms of sharing
or the different editors
within the RStudio workbench.
Thanks, John.
So one of the other
really popular questions
and I alluded to it earlier
is this idea of the challenges
of package management in Python.
And this is an area
I'm particularly excited about
because of the recent addition
of PyPI support
in RStudio package manager
initially in beta.
Would you like to comment
on that at all?
Yeah, absolutely.
So I would tend to agree
it is a bit of a mess
that it certainly
is kind of my experience.
Right now the RStudio IDE
sits on top
of kind of the many
Python management tools
that are available.
And so if you already have
a tool of choice
you saw in my demo
I was using a virtual environment.
If you're using something like Conda
or Poetry or PyEnv
the RStudio IDE
will sit on top
of all of those options.
And in fact,
the kind of key engine
behind all of this
is an open source package
called Reticulate.
And within that package
you can see the different functions
that help the IDE and R
identify what Python environment
to use.
That's also something
that you'll see
in the options menu
that I mentioned
where if you go inside
of RStudio IDE
and click tools options
basically any of those
Python environments
whether they're from Conda
or Virtualenv
are going to be available.
Now that doesn't necessarily mean
that the headaches go away.
And so one of the things
that we're working on
in the future
is extending the support
for creating and managing
those virtual environments
from within the IDE as well.
And so you can look out
for that on the horizon.
And then as Lou mentioned
on the professional side
if you think those headaches
are challenging
as a single data scientist
as a team of Python users
that can often present
even more of a challenge
which is one of the reasons
why we're investing
for those commercial teams
in a package management repository
that supports both R and Python
to help make that work reproducible
to help IT folks say
what packages should be allowed
as well as that kind of
time travel capability
that I briefly showed.
So that's I think
a long-winded way of saying
well we all can commiserate
with the challenges
in Python dependency management
we're going to continue
to invest and make it better
but all of the kind of work
and we're standing
on the shoulders of giants here
is available to you
from within RStudio IDE.
And I just wanted to add to that
another plug for
RStudio's own Alex Gold
who's also part of
the solutions engineering team
is going to be doing a webinar
in a couple of weeks
on the challenges
of package management
and how to address them.
We're going to be doing
a series of blog posts
between now and then
talking about the package
management problem.
So I encourage
anyone who's interested in that
to check it out.
Now Sean is there any
I got a favorite next question
but anything that you want to
jump to before I toss someone out?
So there was one question
I really liked.
It's a very RStudio question
which is to ask you
what are the limitations?
And we try to be pretty
up front with that.
So I'll just throw out there
I personally use the RStudio IDE
when I'm combining R
and Python together.
I have friends who use
the RStudio IDE
for all their Python work.
I have other colleagues
who use VS Code
for their Python work.
So kind of our common theme
is the tools should be
subservient to you
as a data scientist
and not the other way around.
So pick what works for you.
But some of the specific limitations
that you might run into
that we're investing to make better
but you might hit today
are that kind of creation
of Python environments.
I mentioned RStudio
sits on top of that
but it doesn't really give you
tools yet today
for creating your
condor virtual environments.
And then the other limitation
I would call out
is that the debugger
inside of RStudio
today is still pretty R oriented.
And so if you're spending all day
kind of writing a long
Python application
and you are using a debugger
as a critical element of that
I would tend to recommend
something like VS Code
as maybe a better option.
So that's my favorite question
talking about limitations.
What was your favorite question?
Mine was a closely related question
which was
I can't find it now in the list
but there was something
to the effect of
can we now use Python
within the IDE
without a lot of shenanigans unquote.
And my view on that
is the most recent release
RStudio 1.4
has lowered the bar
of necessary shenanigans considerably.
You want to comment on that?
Yeah, I would agree.
As I said
I do have some colleagues
especially those who know R
and are learning Python
for the first time
can be really nice
to not introduce
yet another editor.
It can be challenging
when you're trying to learn
a new language
to also be learning a new tool.
And so I think
if you're someone who knows R
that barrier of entry
is low enough now
that you can get started
using Python
right within the RStudio IDE.
And then if you want to graduate
to another editor
that's fine
but at least you're not learning
both those things at once.
And I kind of echo that as well
to educators that are out there.
Someone asked
what language should I teach?
Well, I think that the key
is to teach
what you're going to be comfortable teaching
to make sure that your students
have a really effective
data science experience
from day one
and that they're not stuck
fighting their tools
before they're able
to create their first plot
whether that's a matplotlib
or a ggplot2.
You want to give them
that gratifying moment early on.
And it's my belief
that a lot of folks at RStudio
have done a ton of awesome work
to ensure that the RStudio IDE
isn't going to present that hurdle
and isn't going to fight students.
If you are a teacher
interested in using R and Python
also do a quick shout out
to RStudio Cloud
which can reduce that hurdle
even further
by allowing folks
to start writing code
without installing anything
on day one.
And that's a good segue
to a question
I wanted to answer
about RStudio Cloud
which is we had a question
on whether RStudio Server
is running on-premises
or in the cloud or what.
RStudio Server Pro
typically most of our customers
will install RStudio Server Pro
themselves
but where they install it
varies considerably.
It could be on-prem
and often is
or it could be
in a virtual private cloud
on any of the major cloud providers.
And so our customers do both.
We also have marketplace offerings
for RStudio Server Pro
on all three major clouds
so you can search for RStudio
in those cloud marketplaces
and that's a quick way
of spinning it up.
And then of course
rstudio.cloud
as Sean just mentioned
is a way of getting started
with similar functionality
without having to install anything
and that's a hosted service
purchased on a monthly basis.
There was also a question
on someone asking
they have a license
for RStudio Server Pro
is a launcher available
or does that require
the enterprise flavor?
The launcher is actually
Sean let me
I thought I knew the answer to that
and now I caught myself.
Could you clarify?
Yeah I would say
for those kind of specific questions
or if you have questions
about professional products
our sales team is happy to help that.
That sounds like a cheesy ad
but I can tell you firsthand
at RStudio
our folks that work
with our customers
are all in their own right
really talented data scientists
and they'll be able to help you
navigate some of these questions
and we'd be the first to say
you don't need a professional product
the open source stuff will work
or we can help you solve
some of the challenges that come up.
So I think that's kind of
how I would end things there Lou
is we'd love for you
to dive into the resources
dive into that community thread
and then if you are
encountering some of the challenges
that we presented
throughout this webinar
feel free to reach out to us
and we are happy to help you
go through that path as well.